Project by :- Jyoti Kapoor


➤ Objective
The objective of this project is to gain insights into the applications hosted on Google Playstore and the sentiment of their user reviews 
and present these insights in the form of visualisation which can be used to improve the overall experience and optimise the application 
development processes.


➤ Tools Used
> Microsoft Excel
> Google Colab (Python libraries - Numpy, Pandas, Seaborn, Matplotlib, TextBlob)
> MySQL Workbench
>PowerBI


### Data Source : Kaggle
### playstore_apps.csv - It contains the basic details of the app like number of user reviews, ratings, etc.

App: It contains the name of the app with a short description (optional).
Category: This section gives the category to which an app belongs. In this dataset, the apps are divided among 33 categories.
Size: The disk space required to install the respective app.
Rating: The average rating given by the users for the respective app. It can be in between 1 and 5.
Reviews: The number of users that have dropped a review for the respective app.
Installs: The approximate number of times the respective app was installed.
Type: It states whether an app is free to use or paid.
Price: It gives the price payable to install the app. For free type apps, the price is zero.
Content rating: It states which age group is suitable to consume the content of the respective app.
Genres: It gives the genre(s) to which the respective app belongs.
Last updated: It gives the day in which the latest update for the respective app was released.
Current Ver: It gives the current version of the respective app.
Android Ver: It gives the android version of the respective app.
### playstore_reviews.csv - It contains the user reviews for respective app.
App: It contains the name of the app with a short description (optional).
Translated_Review: It contains the English translation of the review dropped by the user of the app.


➤ Steps Involved
Data Cleaning and Transforming
To prepare the data for analysis, we performed several data cleaning steps. First, we checked for null values to ensure that there were no
missing pieces of data. We also identified and removed outliers, especially in cases where ratings had a specific range. 
If null values existed and needed to be replaced with some value, we inserted values using the modeValue method. We modified data values, 
for size column we removed symbols like K and M and replaced them with their respective values, as well as removed unwanted characters like
"+" and ",". We changed data types of columns to ensure that the data was in a format that was easy to analyze. Finally, 
we dropped duplicates and checked unique values to ensure the integrity of the data and that.
it was compliant with the intended datatype. A new column 'Revenue' was added by multiplying the prices and installs value for each record.

### Insights using MySQL

1. Which apps have the highest rating in the given available dataset?

2. What are the number of installs and reviews for the above apps?
Return the apps with the highest reviews to the top.

3. Which app has the highest number of reviews? Also, mention the
number of reviews and category of the app

4. What is the total amount of revenue generated by the google play
store by hosting apps? (Whenever a user buys apps from the
google play store, the amount is considered in the revenue)

5. Which Category of google play store apps has the highest number of
installs? also, find out the total number of installs for that particular
category.

6. Which Genre has the most number of published apps?

7. Provide the list of all games ordered in such a way that the game
that has the highest number of installs is displayed on the top
(to avoid duplicate results use distinct)

8. Provide the list of apps that can work on android version 4.0.3 and
UP.

9. How many apps from the given data set are free? Also, provide the
number of paid apps.

10. Which is the best dating app? (Best dating app is the one having
the highest number of Reviews)

11.Get the number of reviews having positive sentiment and number of
reviews having negative sentiment for the app 10 best foods for
you and compare them.

12. Which comments of ASUS SuperNote have sentiment polarity
and sentiment subjectivity both as 1?

13. Get all the neutral sentiment reviews for the app Abs
Training-Burn belly fat.

➤ Challenges Faced
• The Amount of Null values in the dataset were very high and had to be dropped while cleaning which took out almost 13.75% of the dataset, 
the integrity of the dataset was weak which lead to dropping 1491 rows just to remove Null values.

➤ Conclusion
There are total 33 categories and 8158 applications in the given dataset with an overall average rating of 4.2 and an average application size of 19.38 MB.
For content rating, majority of the applications fall under ‘Everyone’ followed by ‘Teen’ and ‘Mature17+’. The least being ‘Adults only 18+’ and Unrated.
Majority of the apps, 92.06% are listed as free while only 7.94% being of paid type. ‘Family’ followed by ‘Game’ have the highest number of paid apps.
‘Family’ is the top category with the highest number of applications followed by ‘Game’ while ‘Beauty’ and ‘Comics’ being the lowest.
While ‘Family’ is the top category, it lags behind in revenue. ‘Lifestyle’ made the highest revenue followed by ‘Game’ and ‘Family’ while ‘Comics’ and ‘House and home’ made the least revenue.
‘Events’ is the top category with the highest average rating of 4.45 followed by ‘Education’ and ‘Art and design’.
‘Google news’ and ‘Subway surfers’ are the most popular apps in terms of installs with 1000M installs.
‘I am rich’ is the highest earning app followed by it’s premium version and ‘Hitman Sniper’.
Clash of Clans, Subway Surfers and Clash Royale are the most reviewed apps with 44 million+ reviews.
The largest app on the Play Store is ‘Hungry Shark Evolution’ belonging to ‘Game’ category with 95.37 MB.
The total number of reviews are 37,427 out of which 19,222 are of Free apps and 225 reviews are of Paid apps.
Majority of the reviews have a positive sentiment followed by Negative and Neutral.
‘Game’ has the highest number of reviews when it comes to Positive and Negative Sentiments followed by ‘Family’.
Sentiment Subjectivity is directly proportional to sentiment polarity in maximum reviews.
40.02% of the Total reviews are Moderately Personal, followed by Moderately Factual at 27.54% and then by Factual Opinion at 16.53% and 15.90% are Personal Opinion.
Bivariate analysis of the following present some deeper insights as depicted -
